#### Install Rust: 
you can check whether you installed Rust or not: `rustup show`

#### Clone: 
`git clone https//github.com/substrate-developer-hub/substrate-node-template`
by default the brach is `main`，you can also select the branch: `git clone --branch polkadot-v0.9.28 https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/substrate-node-template`
if you want to chance the branch：`git switch -c my-branch-v0.9.28`
`git switch`means changing branch, `-c` means create

#### go into the repo: 
`cd substrate-node-template`

#### Compile the node template: 
`cargo build --package node-template --release`
`--package` define which package will be compiled
`node-template` is defined by docker-compose.yml
`--release` means optimized version

#### make sure the node info: 
`./target/release/node-template --help`

#### Check account's info: 
because Alice is predefined(node->chain_spec.rs), so we can check Alice: `./target/release/node-template key inspect //Alice`
`key` is used to manage `cli` and is generated by macro `clap::Subcommand`. 
`inspect` means getting a public key and a SS58 address from the provided Secret URI
`//Alice` is URI(Uniform Resource Identifier)

#### Start the node in development mode: 
`./target/release/node-template --dev`
`--dev`: Specify the development chain: This flag sets `'--chain=dev'`, `'--force-authoring'`, `'--rpc-cors=all'`, `'--alice'`, and `'--tmp'` flags. unless explicitly overridden. In this mode, the chain doesn't require any peer computers to finalize blocks. As the node starts, the terminal displays output about the operations performed.
`--chain`: Specifies the chain specification to use. You can set this option using a predefined chain specification name, such as `dev`, `local`, or `staging` or you can specify the path to a file that contains the chain specification, for example, the chain specification generated by using the `build-spec` subcommand 
`--force-authoring`: Enables block authoring even if the node is offline
`--rpc-cors`: Specifies the browser Origins allowed to access the HTTP and WS RPC servers. You can specify this option as a comma-separated list of origins using `protocol://domain` syntax, `null`, or `all`. A value of `all` disables origin validation. By default, `localhost` and `https://polkadot.js.org` origins are allowed. If you start the node with the `--dev` option, all origins are allowed by default.
`--alice`: Adds the session keys for the predefined `Alice` account to the local keystore. This flag is equivalent to running the node using --name alice --validator as command-line options
`--name`: Specifis the human-readable name for this node. The node name is reported to the telmetry server, if enabled.
`--validator`: Starts the node with the authority role and enables it to actively participate in any consensus task that it can (for example, depending on availability of local keys).
`--tmp`: Runs a temporary node. This option creates a temporary directory to store the blockchain configuration, including the ode database, node key, and the keystore.
