内容
* 存证的介绍
* 写代码
* 作业

## 链上存证的介绍
存证是一种在线服务，可用于在某一时间点验证计算机文件的存在性，最早是通过比特币网络带有时间戳的交易实现的。存证的应用场景有：
* 数字版权
* 司法存证
* 供应链溯源
* 电子发票
## 链上存证的功能实现
https://substrate.dev/docs/zh-CN/tutorials/build-a-dapp/
## About Proof of Existence
The dApp we will build is a Proof of Existence (PoE) service. From Wikipedia:
Proof of Existence is an online service that verifies the existence of computer files as of a specific time via timestamped transactions in the bitcoin blockchain.
Rather than uploading the entire file to the blockchain to "prove its existence", users submit a hash of the file, known as a file digest or checksum. These hashes are powerful because huge files can be uniquely represented by a small hash value, which is efficient for storing on the blockchain. Any user with the original file can prove that this file matches the one on the blockchain by simply recomputing the hash of the file and comparing it with the hash stored on chain.
To add to this, blockchains also provide a robust identity system through accounts that map to public keys, and associations built on top of those keys see the identity pallet. So when a file digest is stored on the blockchain, we can also record which account uploaded that digest. This allows that controller of that account to later prove that they were the original person to claim the file.
## 安装 Node Template
You should already have version latest of the Substrate Node Template compiled on your computer from when you completed the Create Your First Substrate Chain Tutorial. 如果您尚未完成该教程，请先完成它。 (v3.0.0 tag works as well, but comes with FRAME v1 templates, latest includes FRAME v2 templates that you can use for reference for mock and testing files.)
```rust
git clone -b latest --depth 1 https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/substrate-node-template
```
## 接口与设计
我们的 PoE 接口将开放两个可调用的功能：
create_claim() - allows a user to claim the existence of a file by uploading a file digest.
revoke_claim() - allows the current owner of a claim to revoke their ownership.
为了实现这一点，我们只需要储存已经声称的证明以及是谁提出这些的证明即可。
Sounds simple enough, right? Let's get coding!
### 安装 Front-End Template
The Create Your First Substrate Chain Tutorial used the front-end template, so there is no additional set-up required if you have already completed that tutorial.
## Substrate Blockchain File Structure
Open the Node Template in your favorite code editor, then open the file pallets/template/src/lib.rs
```rust
substrate-node-template
|
+-- node
|
+-- pallets
|   |
|   +-- template
|       |
|       +-- Cargo.toml     <-- *Modify* this file
|       |
|       +-- src
|           |
|           +-- lib.rs     <-- *Remove* contents
|           |
|           +-- mock.rs    <-- *Remove* (optionally modify)
|           |
|           +-- tests.rs   <-- *Remove* (optionally modify)
|
+-- runtime
|
+-- scripts
|
+-- ...
```
You will see some pre-written code that acts as a template for a new pallet. When writing your own pallets in the future, you will likely find the scaffolding in this template pallet useful. But for the purposes of really learning how a pallet is constructed, delete all contents of this file.
The following sections will start from scratch and assumes that you have cleared the existing pallet/template/src/lib.rs file.
## Write a Pallet from Scratch
### 1. Pallet Scaffolding
Have a look at the skeleton of a FRAME pallet from the knowledgebase to learn more about the basic structure of a FRAME pallet. This tutorial is using the latest version of FRAME so be sure to refer to that. We can start by scaffolding our pallet using the following code:
```rust
pallet/template/src/lib.rs
```
```rust
#![cfg_attr(not(feature = "std"), no_std)]

// Re-export pallet items so that they can be accessed from the crate namespace.
pub use pallet::*;

#[frame_support::pallet]
pub mod pallet {
    use frame_support::{dispatch::DispatchResultWithPostInfo, pallet_prelude::*};
    use frame_system::pallet_prelude::*;
    use sp_std::vec::Vec; // Step 3.1 will include this in `Cargo.toml`

    #[pallet::config]  // <-- Step 2. code block will replace this.

    #[pallet::event]   // <-- Step 3. code block will replace this.

    #[pallet::error]   // <-- Step 4. code block will replace this.

    #[pallet::pallet]
    #[pallet::generate_store(pub(super) trait Store)]
    pub struct Pallet<T>(_);

    #[pallet::storage] // <-- Step 5. code block will replace this.

    #[pallet::hooks]
    impl<T: Config> Hooks<BlockNumberFor<T>> for Pallet<T> {}

    #[pallet::call]   // <-- Step 6. code block will replace this.
}
```
By doing this, we've declared the dependencies and macros our pallet will require to function.
Things like events, storage, and callable functions may look familiar to you if you have done other blockchain development. We will show you what each of these components looks like for a basic Proof Of Existence pallet by providing you with the code blocks that go under each section.
Critical: the no_std feature is required for all pallets! This is because we are building a runtime module that must compile to WASM, and therefore cannot depend on rust's std dependencies. If you take a look at the pallets/template/Cargo.toml file, you will see that the template already has std default feature disabled which is necessary in order to compile the runtime to WASM. Learn more about why this is necessary in the Add a Pallet tutorial.

You can use std features in non-runtime components like mock.rs and tests.rs using [dev-dependencies] ONLY. Specifics and examples of this are outside the scope of this tutorial.
### 2. Pallet Configuration Trait
Every pallet has a component called Config that is used for configuration. This component is a Rust "trait": traits in Rust are similar to interfaces in languages such as C++, Java and Go. For now, the only thing we will configure about our pallet is that it will emit some Events. The Config interface is another topic that will be covered in greater depth in the Add a Pallet tutorial. To define the pallet's Config trait, replace the #[pallet::config] line with this block:
```rust
pallet/template/src/lib.rs
```
```rust
    /// Configure the pallet by specifying the parameters and types on which it depends.
    #[pallet::config]
    pub trait Config: frame_system::Config {
        /// Because this pallet emits events, it depends on the runtime's definition of an event.
        type Event: From<Event<Self>> + IsType<<Self as frame_system::Config>::Event>;
    }
```
### 3. Pallet Events
Now that we've configured our pallet to emit events, let's go ahead and define those events. Our pallet will only emit an event in two circumstances:

当一个新的证明被添加到区块链中。
当证明被移除时。
The events can contain some additional data, in this case, each event will also display who triggered the event (AccountId), and the proof data (as Vec<u8>) that is being stored or removed. Note that convention is to include an array with descriptive names for these parameters at the end of event documentation.

To implement this, replace #[pallet::event] with:
```rust
pallet/template/src/lib.rs
```
```rust
    // Pallets use events to inform users when important changes are made.
    // Event documentation should end with an array that provides descriptive names for parameters.
    // https://substrate.dev/docs/en/knowledgebase/runtime/events
    #[pallet::event]
    #[pallet::metadata(T::AccountId = "AccountId")]
    #[pallet::generate_deposit(pub(super) fn deposit_event)]
    pub enum Event<T: Config> {
        /// Event emitted when a proof has been claimed. [who, claim]
        ClaimCreated(T::AccountId, Vec<u8>),
    /// Event emitted when a claim is revoked by the owner. [who, claim]
        ClaimRevoked(T::AccountId, Vec<u8>),
    }
```
#### 3.1 Include sp-std Library
Notice here that we are using the Vec<u8> type, which is normally included in the std Rust library. We cannot use std! So instead, we have included use sp_std::vec::Vec; in our mod pallet. The sp-std crate includes many common things that we desire from std, but are no_std compatible. To use this though, we must update our pallet's dependencies:
```rust
pallet/template/Cargo.toml
```
```rust
# *** Add the following lines ***
[dependencies.sp-std]
default-features = false
git = 'https://github.com/paritytech/substrate.git'
tag = 'monthly-2021-09+1'
version = '4.0.0-dev'
```
